# How to Find Perspectives

## Why do we need more perspectives

Through the previous chapters, we mentioned various things that we can learn to do - understand others better, understand ourselves better, and even change ourselves. All of these things rely on obtaining a better understanding, or better familiarity, with the space of perspectives. Once we are more familiar with it, we have more reference points to use for approximating others or ourselves, and for navigating in it. Such familiarty we can obtain, first and foremost, by observing and, as much as possible, trying out, various perspectives.

## Three steps to finding a new perspective

Roughly speaking, we can divide the search for new perspectives to three steps. The first, is placing yourself in a place or occasion where you are likely to encounter new perspectives. This means, you should always keep in mind, when choosing whether to go somewhere (among your other considerations): Is it likely that I will meet there people who are different than those I normally meet? Will the activity taking place there be new to me, exposing sides of the participants that I might not know? Might I experience something unfamiliar and new, exposing new sides of myself? You can of course actively look for such places and occasions.

Once you find yourself there, the second step is to notice opportunities. It doesn't help to be around different people if you don't notice them, and go on talking with the familiar ones. If you don't actually partake in the new activities, you won't see what light it sheds on yourself and other people. You need to keep your eyes open, notice things which might be interesting, people, conversations, situations. Then you can decide what and how to do with regard to these opportunities, which leads to the next step.

The third step is to actually make use of these opportunities, to engage them. You need to leave your comfort zone, the familiar people and situtations, and venture out to different people and activities. Of course you can't do this all the time, that's why the second step is imporant to notice various opportunities, of which you can make your choice, to which you actually want to dedicate effort and time. But once you choose such an opportunity, embrace it. Go on, follow the conversation through, see what you can learn. Try that new activity out, see how does it feel. You can always fall back to your comfort zone, but once you're already out there, it's much easier to see and feel new perspectives, and learn about them. And this is where this closes to a cycle - through new people and experiences, you get the change to find new places or occasions, for the first step, some which you might have not known about before. You can go to them now, further expanding the amount of perspectives you are (potentially) exposed to.

Of course, in reality these three steps are not always clearly separated from each other - going to a new place is part of noticing that it might be interesting, in order to notice opportunities you might have to engage in them somewhat already, and engaging in opporunities might be exactly what brings you to interesting places. However, these separate definitions do help practicing each of these steps separately. Each of them is a skill, which can be practiced and improved over time. Of course, through all of this, you also need to be able to actually follow the new perspective you are observing or feeling. This will be discussed in the next chapter.
