# Space of Perspectives

## Changes over time

When we decsribed your (own, private) perspective, we omitted an important element: this perspective changes over time. Surely, young and old people see the world differently. If you look at your own perspective, you can see that it changed since you were a child, many times. Different things interested you at different stages in your life, different things upset you, different things challenged you. You can also notice how some personality traits shifted - some have become softer and more mellow, others have become more important and crucial to your self-definition. Lastly, your reaction to things have changed - you are better at coping with some things, others are more tolling on you than they used to be. This is at a very low resolution, or large size (see sizes of circles). At higher resolution, you can notice changes within weeks, how you have "better weeks" and "worse weeks", some more stressful, some more relaxed. This is of course also due to "external circumstances", but in the end it affects your perception as well, your state of being, which means that you might react to the same thing differently at different times. Zooming in further, within a single day, you can notice how your mood changes; you are not the same person just when waking up, at the middle of the day while going on with your various occupations, and at night just before going to sleep. Even further, you can have tipping points within several minutes - for instance, while hungry just before a meal, versus at the middle or just after you finished this meal. Again, you can argue that this change is due to the external circumstances (being hungry as opposed to being full), but it doesn't matter - these are different states of perception, where you see things differently and react to them differently. We will come to this point, of what changes your perspectives, later on. For now, the bottom line is, that you do not have a single perspective, rather a set of perspectives, always moving and shifting throughout your life.

## Joint space

In the previous entry we considered the various perspectives different people have, now the different ones a single person has. Putting this together, we can think of a "Space of Perspectives", where all different perspectives there are (infinitely many) reside. Every way there is of "observing", or experiencing, the world is a point in this space. Some are closer to each other, some are further apart. We can also try to break them down along various axes, looking at different aspects at these perspectives, and say that two perspectives are similar along some of these aspects, and more far apart along others. Each person, or entity, travels in this space, plotting throughout time a graph, or path, of all the perspectives that they've gone through.

Given this space, we can rephrase and extend our statement regarding "only your own": your graph of perspectives, the set of perspectives that you go through in your life, probably never intersects that of anyone else. This means, you will never, at any point, know exactly how anyone else has felt at any point. However, you can try to approximate some aspects of another person's perspectives, and thus better understand them; the next chapters will address this further.
