# Subjectivity

## Reality

Reality is, basically, subjective. This means, that reality, as you experience it, is a construct that exists inside your mind. It is an experience, a concept. You have various reasons to assume, that this experience correlates in some ways with things that exist externally to you:
- There are aspects of it you can't control.
- "It" has a memory of its own; you can leave some parts of reality outside of your immediate experience, and come back to find them there again.
- You experience other entities which you can't fully simulate or predict.
- These entites behave in a way which suggests that, inasmuch they are similar to you, their experiences have something in common with yours.
You can't know for sure, of course, that this is not all just another part of your personal experience, generated in parts of your mind that you perceive as external to you. But this difference doesn't matter as much, so you can stay with the model of there being things internal and external to you. Some of those external things you designate as entities (including, but not limited to, humans), which also have their internal experience, which overlaps with yours to some extent.

## Continuum of Subjectivity

So there are parts of your personal reality which are more common to you and other entities, and some which are more personal. This is of course a continuum, in various directions:
- For physical to personal. When you and I experience a table, there are parts of this experience which are completely the same - for instance, the number of legs, or the material of which it is made. Then we can move to other properties of it which we will perceive in similar, but not necessarily identical ways - what color is it? Onwards to even more subjective properties - is it beautiful? Does it fit the design of the room? And then onto completely personal properties - it might remind you of a table in your childhood.
- Objects and categories. When you and I say "table", we mean mostly the same thing. Most objects that you will refer to as tables, I will too, and vice versa. However, the first image that springs to minds when we say the word "table" might be rather different. There might be things that you would definitely identify as tables if you see them, but which might not at all come to mind when you try to think of the whole variety of tables; others still, might lay on the boundaries of what a table is - is a board hanging from the wall at the right height a table? One hanging from above? Can a board which is at a large angle to the floor, but standing on feet, be a table? What about a piece of furniture that has both a surface at a table's height and one at a bench's height, is that a table, a bench, both or neither? All of these questions may seem like they're only nitpicking definitions, but they actually affect the way you perceive reality as divided into objects - which might differ from the way someone else might perceive it.
- Interpretation of situations. At a given social situation, some of the aspects of the situation will be more unanimously agreed upon than others. If person says something, usually people would perceive the words that they used as identical. The tone in which they were said is more open to interpretation: Did they raise their voice? Did they shout, or speak excitedly? What they meant can be even more diversely perceived: were they critical? Did they mean the things at face value, or were they sarcastic? Finally, what temperament did they convey: Were they aggresive or outwards friendly? Insultive or compassionate? Here, note again, that some of this interpretation might be done analytically, and perhaps an informed conclusion might be reached; but this analysis is only one factor which affects the final result, of how you perceived the situation.

## Personal Science

One thing that sets apart the "objective" reality, is that these are aspects of our personal realities upon which we agree so strongly, that we can do science together. You can perform an experiment inside your subjective reality, derive an equation which governs some behaviour of the physical world in your reality, give me that equation, and I can find out that the same equation governs this behaviour in my subjective reality as well. Once we deviate from these things which are so common, doing science together becomes difficult. However, we can still each do science inside our own realities: perform observations, construct models and make predictions. These models won't necessarily function inside the realities of others. However, the methods which we use to create them may still be shared. We can still consult others with our observations, even thought they are only valid inside our reality, and get their help in trying to construct a model. This books attempts (among other things) to share working methods in this Personal Science.
