# Looking at Yourself from the Outside

Just like you can look at other people from the outside, trying to assess their emotions, motives, or in general their perspective, you can also look at yourself from the outside. This is more tricky, at first, because you feel like you *are* yourself, but after a while you can learn to separate the observing-you from the acting-and-feeling-you. This is also quite important, if you want to apply some of the lessons you learned through observing various perspectives. It lets you build a model of your own perspective in a form that is similr to the models you constructed of other perspectives. Then you can compare them, finding the differences, deciding which parts you are happy with and which ones you would like to change. Of course, actually changing them is a process of itself, which mostly falls outside the scope of this book but we might touch later; but understanding is definitely a crucial first step.

Another things that looking at yourself from the outside offers, is the ability to follow better your change of perspective. As we mentioned in [Changes over time](space.md), your perspective is ever changing. Looking from the outside helps you notice these changes and map the space of "your" perspectives - how do they vary, how is their drift related to external circumstances, in which direction do they seem to be going. This lets you better navigate through them, understanding which circumstances will yield the perspectives which you want, as well as just accepting this ever-changing nature.

The last thing that this enables, is the afore-mentioned separation of observing-you and feeling-you. This is an important step in understanding the full arbitrariness of the perspectives themselves. The perspective that you hold at any single point in time is just that, a perspective, and doesn't have to do with realty, or with yourself, any more than any other perspective.
