Plato
=======

Plato was (and is) a philosopher in Classical Greece and the founder of the Academy in Athens. So he represents the spirit of knowledge and logical thinking. He has a very known allegory, which I want to disccuss here, step by step - as this is very powerful tool (or language) that can clarify a lot of misunderstandings. We can translate this allegory to our language. 

Imprisonment in the cave
=======

Flatland is an example of how we can't understand intuitively the fourth dimention. Particularly we can take for example something which is correct mathematically but we don't have the intuition to grasp it because our "monkey mind" - the mind that have been developed to solve day to day issue of survival, is very predominant - while our "mind of ideas" is very weak. And this predominant mind see only particular objects and talks only about what is happening in his immediate 3d environment. This is the base of imprisonment. And to start to feel the improsonment we can start from the simplest things possible - to imagine 4d objects instead of the usual 3d. This basic exercise is showing very intuitively how we imprisoned in our mind of the particular infront of us. 

Exercise: Notice that all you see is 2d surfaces in 3d space. You never saw 3d object only many surfaces. Start from trying to grasp what you see from "above" - notice how limited the information you get (think of what flatlander sees). Most of what you see you construct further in your mind. What you actually see is limited information in form of 2d surface. Your calmness is based on the model of your reality which doesn't show danger - not full grasp of reality. 

Exercise: Try to grasp the concept of the fourth dimention. 

- Start from realizing that everything around you has not only external shape but also internal structure. 
-- Hold a complex object in your hand. Try to reconstruct his internal 3d structure in your mind. 
-- Now think about the complexity of all the universe in 3d with all the volume. You can think about it as multi layered objects (matryoshka). 
-- Now think how can a flatlander imagines square inside square? From which perspective does he see this square inside square? he sees it from the 3d dimention. He doesn't realizes that the several layers that he see together is what is seen from "above" the plane because he has hard time to grasp the concept "above" but he can describe exactly how it seen from the 3d dimention and the only thing which is left is to wait for him to accept the 3d dimention instead of his imagination of one inside the other - i.e. he must accept that when he started to look at all the inside of all the 2d objects - he is doing it because he started to see at least his plane but already from the.

Exercise2: Now very important step is to realize this is allegory to other things in life. We look at our reality with very limited space of concepts and ideas. And this is ok because our survival forced us to look only at 3d shadows of the more complex ideas and constracts. Everone of them is real to some extent as the "3d shadow" of reality is real. You should had practice already the realization that every meme every idea is as real as the reality - because the 3d reality is limited representation of the "true" objects, molecular soup that present there. You simply don't have a good representation of that soup of molecules around you, you can query simple stuff about that soup - like if he's gonna jump at you, but you don't have a good understanding of the proccesses. So you can see about other "entities", like any idea every meme is actually seen with some resolution - in some very basic level meme is always developing, and this is very hard to strictly forbid. Every new mind realizes the meme a little bit differently. So basically everything we see around us is some sort of limited ideas and representations of something much more complex that happens near us and around us. Part of this happening is in our brain itself. Meme can be seen as real entities that get their life support from our minds. 

So we live in this space of information which is infinite (the sun of Plato/Socrates) but we see very limited part of this information. This limitation of perception is not our fault but this is how we developed evolutionary. This is actually good that we have evolutionaty instincts but we can allow ourselves to look around, and not think only about survival - to look outside. I think today there is no need to force people to see outside their cave, everyone understands the need and the priority of education and knowledge. Everyone know they need to improve their intuition and their perception of reality. 

Exiting the matrix
========

The information is infinite - the information around us is now very accessible, much more eccesible than say even 30-40 years ago. Yet still we have very limited representation of the knowledge available to us. And the knowlede needs also to be internalized and this takes time (not every time you read a book you change your life immediatly according to the information in that book). So exiting the matrix can be regarded as a process very similiar to gradient descent when you try to follow maximal different "teachings", in some very highly dimentional space. In order to follow something you need to practice it for some time. In order to change dirrection you need to stop practicing it and follow a new teaching. This preccess can be shown to be convergent into some place or area which can be explained by proccess from machine learning called stochastic gradient descent. This is the simple idea that for every "good example" i.e. for every teacher you make yourself aligned to his teachings by some epsilon. You don't need to accept all of his teachings, this is when the epsilon is too strong, but you need to "respect" his way, and let him attract you to himeself to some limited extent (notice you can go too slow). Now if the teacher is defined as somesithing which seen desirable to some extent that is tought, because of it desirability, this means that learning it has some probability to bring the student to that more desired place. Because we also don't know what is a desired place and we only know that there are some places more desirable than ours currently, this proves that by using stochastic gradient descent we will get into some local maximum of desired "stuff". Like in machine learning the teacher doesn't has to have a clue what he is - we just need many particular examples of something which can be called "good". So by following many teaching each of the teachings to some extent, and always traying to add more and more of the teachings preferably orthogonal to others, we should converge to some place where no new knowlege moves us very far not because our epsilon is low, but because we already did something similiar, this is when we can say we now reached a local maximum and we can teach (at least until we not discovered something completely new than we can come back to be students). So basically this is the process of exiting from the matrix. By trying to listen and learn and practice maximal amount of sources possible, preferebly very different and orthogonal. This will get a person to some persepective which can be internally seen as "exit" into higher dimentionality. When a student follows the teacher completely he also should get to some local maximum, hopefully because the teacher is part of such multi generational proccess of gradient descent. But when a student doesn't introduce anything new, he is a good student, but he is not part of the multi generational proccess of small changes of the knowledge. He goes for the most "comfortable" solution which should work - but maybe it will not work for him? Maybe his local maximum is somewhat at different point than his teacher's, because of his internal structure? Maybe they don't belong to so similiar manifolds? If the target is not copying but learning, what is the problem if the student accepts the teachings partially? 

Exercise: Walk around and fell like in video game. Notice that your center is not moving trully only the reality around you. Your center is always at the same place, only you have a "feeling" this is you who's moving and not the reality, this feeling can be ignored and you can sense you're in the center of a video game where the surounding is moving and you're static. 

Negative returning to the cave
======== 

Plato describes a negative run away from the exiting, back into the known and pleasent shadows of the well known. This first returning to the cave is not done consciously. It will sound like "been there - don't want to do it again, thanks". This can be interpreted as an example of a student which is actually not trying to learn but filter the information which he wants to hear. When he hears the teachings he can do two things - try to practice them, accept them, and see what happens. And he can say - I'm already doing that, I don't want to do it, or any other excuse. This is also okay - but then what turnes out? the student is only doind what he wanted to do in the first place - basically he never moved from initial point or he's stuck to some manifold, because he refused too many teachers or because he chose some part of the teacher which he anyway agrees with. So the student filtered the information in a way which didn't cause him to change any direction in any dimention. This is basically can formulated as this "Plato flip" - he saw the light, it was too hard, came back from where he started without changing anything. 

Positive returning to the cave
========= 

We all live in the prison of our mind. Some of the prisons are preferable to some others. Even when we "get outside the matrix" we just in a bigger prison. This should not be called with the term prison already as it has negative conotation, but this is basically the idea - we have limitation, which are done to us by our limited perception and representation of the reality. This limitation could be comfortable and could be uncomfortable, and some practices can make it more comfortable. I'm chosing the term comfortable just because we all feel like we prefer it. But my basic claim is that some practices can make some positive change in life of some people than other practices to the same people or lack of practices. So the basic question is how or should we even start influincing people? My claim is that yes if you think you're in a better place than they are, and you should influence in some sub-space if you think this is true in that sub-space. 







