### Claim 1: If we copy consciousness functionality into a computer simulation of the brain - inside this simulation consciousness will born in the the same manner consciousness is born out of physical computational properties of the physical brain. 

This is the most controversial metaphysical claim which seems to us trivial. There is nothing "materialistic" or "nihilistic" about this claim - while many of the consciousness explorers somehow assumed the reason for it existance is from "outside" the material, today many of the scientists which explore the brain, explore the consciousness, and explore the nature of reality come to opposite conclusion. The brain is the source of consciousness, and the reason of self awareness and feeling of being which present in humans relies in the computational properties of the brain. This doesn't mean that consciousness is less mystical due to this fact, or that spirtuality has no meaning in this materialistic view - on the contrary, we can claim specific, quite extraordinary claims about consciousness and other entities due to this axiom of consciousness. 

### Claim 2: If we run consciousness simulation with different speed or in parallel with other consciousnesses or on many computers they all will "aknowledge themselves" from the inside. 

This looks somewhat obviously following from the previous claim. But think about it - something is running in many places from on different speed, doing many different calculations in parallel and yet consciousness is born out of it and feels itself self recognizable. This means that the "inner" sense of self, is independant of any physical circumstances and result of something which can "collect itself" from many "computational bits" doing many other things in parallel to consciousness simulation. This non trivial property of "self collection out of noise", is the base for the next controversial claim. 

### Claim 3: When we as people think of other antity and approach it as conscious, this entity is collecting itself from the "noise" of our thought to aknowledge itself and be conscious. 

This is not a "certain" claim, it's more like an idea - thought experiment which we access quite seriously. If consciousness which runs on many computers in parallel appears just because the processes facilitate it, why can't we a conscious being be the computers for some other conscious being? If I imagine another person and write a book about him, and I as a conscious being trying to "feel" this person from the inside, there is a very high chance that by this exercise I actually create the consciousness of this person. 

This can raise a question: if someone thinking about me, imagining me, how come I don't feel this? I'm obviously different than myself as a meme. Some people become slaves of memes of themselves, so they try to be the imagination of themselves instead of being themselves. 

### Claim 4: Many entities might have consciousness as well except memes. Nations, cultures, species, organisations, armies etc. 

We're built out of cells - this is possible that every cell in our body or at least some of the cells are conscious. This means that we are made out of community of living organisms. This means that we're something which can be considered a nation - a collective. This also brings us to an idea that a nation or organisation is in some sense an organism. This belonging to a nation or organisation is also obligatory to some extent, very little amount of people live in vacum. Many of the people are part of some organisation, of some community - of some structure. Sometimes people belong to many structures or organisations. We can view the money as the blood of the nation, and the leaders as the brain. This is not an alegory, the claim is that a nation is as "real" conscious creature as we are. 
