### Claim 1: We are agents that build mental models of reality. 

When baby is born he know nothing about reality — he has some inputs and outputs, and he learns the correlations between them. We are born with this universal puzzle - the puzzle is the reality. Every person solves this puzzle differently. Yet this basic sense of "not knowing" and "exploring reality" is something we are doing constantly, trying to solve this puzzle the best way possible. We try to have a good mental representation of maximum relevant concepts, and make desicions and act upon the best models we can get of our reality (if not as individuals then at least as a societies). 

### Claim 2: Our default state of knowledge is limited to know only the minimum we need to survive optimally. 

By default, we don't know the "true" nature of things only it "appearance", its external manifestation in order to know enough about it that will ensure our survival. For example, we don't need to see an animal with 100mp (megapixel) resolution, we can see it with 2mp and say with high certainty if it will not attack us or not. We don't really want to know everything about its life and history, we only want to have the minimal information about stuff which concerns us directly. 

### Claim 3: Our knowledge of any concept and entity is limited by some resolution (optimal representation by our mind). 

In general every concept and entity we have some information about, is limited to some degree. Even if we do want to learn and know more than what is needed for our survival, we will still know some limited amount of information. Our mind is limited so our knowledge is always made to ensure some degree of representation for some purpose which can be formulated. i.e. our knowledge of anything is always limited. 

### Claim 4: Automatization done by our mind makes us forget our limited representation of reality. We live in illusion that what we see is the "true" reality. 

Automatization first of all makes us forget that we don't know — it creates the false sense of security. We stop thinking and analyzing, and we become "machines" that act without thinking. This is done by evolution so that we could focus on things which can't be easily automatized. Yet this what makes us forget the illusion, the wonder, the unknown which is all around us. 

### Claim 5: The basic realization of spirituality is development of sense of wonder and feel for the unknown which is much greater than the known. Being on scale of transcendental experience. 

We can with practice develop this sense that everything around us is magical — is complex and very deep. We are point in space which tries to make sense of everything which is going on around us, and we can develop the sense this is a very partial project which makes us feel better and safer but it's not the project that reveals the true nature of things. We can feel the limit of our mind and see ourselves as beings and a collective which tries to improve this all the time — yet on the other hand feel the limits of this project. 

Another formulation: The spirtuality is based on the quest for something which is beyond our immediate perception of reality - for spiritual person this perception is "boring" or "lacking some intuition". Most of us want to know there is "more" to reality than meets the eye or explained by science. Many people because of that start to believe in miracles or supernatural. But the correct path in our opinion is to develop the sense of "inner wonder", inner depth of perception of reality which is much more interesting and feels truly fulfilling without the need of "objective" miracles. The true wonder is inside us, is in the technology we create using the laws of nature. Even the "magical" spirtuality is only seeking a conformation for the desire to believe there is something more, so this is still inner desire which is fulfilled by believing in miracle, and when it happens the believer is getting some emotional charging. Instead of incorrectly directing the spiritual desire, we suggest to accept this desire and point it in the right direction without breaking the natural law and without the need in belief this is possible. This is not only important for the correct perception of reality, but this is also important for the spiritual person as well. When you get your spiritual sreength from some improbable or not well explained impirical events, you are not developing spiritually - you develop your "ego", you develop some belief in some model of reality, and this is exactly not what spirituality is about. Spirituality is about developing some sense of "deeper inner perception" of the same impirical reality. More than that the belief in miracles is making you to focus on the wrong aspects of spirituality i.e. even if the miracles were true, one should not focus his attention on them - as this is basically an athestic materialistic aspect of some events. This is a good example how the sense of wonder could be felt (think that you were present in such a miraculas moment which happened infront of your eyes), and now take this sense of wonder - and try to feel it for everything which is happening around you each moment. 

Transcendental experience : many people from many cultures have reports of something which is now called transcendental experience. Scientists have divided this expirience in several correlated categories: sacradness, intuitive knowledge, deeply felt elevated mood, outside time and space, and innefability (inability to pass information through words). If you think about it - this is more or less the space which comes before the learned input-output knowledge by our senses. It's almost entirely can be explained by something like - comming back into childhood, where the world is still mysterious, where you don't feel "in control" of the reality with your mind which make you feel safe but takes away the sense of wonder. When you see beyond the learned automated responses to what's happening, you feel this sense of wonder, of sacradness, of intuition. You come to a place where time as a complex concept was not learned, there is this pure existance which is still not explained. In a way it's like forgetting what you've learned, but unlike forgetting is simply knowing how little we do know relative to the wonders of existance. In a sense a child which never learned knows intuitivelly more truths about reality than what a learned person does, because the mental influence of knowledge is control, and it creates this sense of grasping the reality infornt of us which is almost entirely false. Einstein has writen it very precisely: 

We are in the position of a little child entering a huge library, whose walls are covered to the ceiling with books in many different languages. The child knows that someone must have written those books. It does not know who or how. It does not understand the languages in which they are written. The child notes a definite plan in the arrangement of the books, a mysterious order, which he does not comprehend but only dimly suspects.

### Claim 6: With practice we can develop the "inner" sense of entities around us

Although we know the project of realizing the surrounding entities is limited, we have two tools to develop the sense of "other beings" which are not use. The one way is a scientific way, by knowing all the scientific parameters of the other entity we can develop behavioral models of it. But this is "external" way of knowledge. Another way to know things is to try to feel them from the inside. 

One good example I have is learning body language. You can find a lot of books about body language and its meaning — and I'm not saying they are bad. But one of the tricks I learned from acting classes is just to copy myself this body language — by copying it I can sense how it "feels" from the inside to make this movements and have this body language, many time guessing better what it means that the books. The theory of external measures and rules is not always the most optimal method to grasp reality, many times we should ask ourselves "how it feels", not only "what it does". 

### The goal of this book

One of the largest goals of this book is to present the reader with this realization, and present some mental tools to develop this sense of wonder and a place for exploration in this domain, with special emphasis on "introspection" research by trying to answer "how it feels" in some systematic order (but also noticing that what we know is limited). We have different approaches toward this goal: 

1. Metaphysics course is made to develop intellectually the sense that there is something which is happening around us all the time, and we don't notice its complexity. To present different points of view on reality and its nature (which we probably know is true but don't usually think about it). 

2. Practices course is made to provide a series of practical meditations to improve the sense of illusion that we emerged in, and don't pay attention. 

3. Singularity course is made to develop the sense of distance (resolution) from different concepts, imagine how it would be when the distance is close to 0 to every entity (at least from the inside), and develop tools to increase and decrease the resolution of all the surrounding entities. 

4. Perspectives course is made to develop this sense of wonder by realization that each person has his own unique "answer" to this "universal puzzle", and by seeing the diversity of answers develop the core sense of the unknown, and grasp the limits of our own represntation of reality.  

5. Fractal nature of reality course. In this course we try to develop a deeper understanding of different concisenesses which surround us and part of us and we're part of them. Trying to reach a sense of understanding and awareness to the different aspects of conciseness and by doing so acquire deeper sense of being and harmony with the universe (develop some sense of meaning and purpose while still seeing through the relativeness and illusory aspect of those). 
