Reality as puzzle 
========

We born into some reality, this reality turns out to be our physical world, our parents, our culture, our explanations that make sense to us and a way of thinking. When we grow up we try to check out whether everything we know about reality make sense in our frame of reference. Some people feel everything is fine, they feel as belonging to the place and culture they born into, they feel confident about the explanation they got, and they feel comfortable in their extended skin (not only the body, but their family, friends, culture, country, planet etc.). But some people don’t feel that comfortable and not everything feels to them as “smooth” as for other people or as their society would want them to believe. Those people are many times seeking for some solution to their problems (many times society encourages a seeking for some solution to some specific problems but in the scope of the social norms and values). Nevertheless many times they still have some questions, some unsolved cracks in their reality this is when they truly start to feel reality is a puzzle for them. 

Cultures, religions and many philosophical and other thinkers were troubled by similar path of questioning. They came up with their own solutions to the problems, their solutions with time are incorporated into cultures and become part of the “common wisdom”. Yet although many solutions are available to many people, some people are still seeking for new solutions. This happened to anyone who has found one of the solution that today belong to the “common wisdom”. So we can say humanity is trying to solve some sort of puzzle, puzzle of human existence - and this is not a simple puzzle, and every generation comes up with its own solutions and its own questions, and every person solves it in his own way - or at least accepts his own set of solutions and answers to the “big questions”. 

Wrong solutions
====== 

For decades humanity came up with many “wrong” answers. The answers were including non existing entities, wrong empirical facts, dogmatic and not methodologic thinking, and many other logic fallacies we know about today. Even people who know the fallacies still have hard time to avoid them. Yet nevertheless humanity survived even when majority of people and even the big thinkers were getting it all wrong in the big picture. More than that in many cases this wasn’t matter at all in the big picture - humanity was living on, people were making kids, pushing it to the next generation, and the “blind” mechanisms of survival were still the major forming factor of our society and knowledge about reality, which many times was imprecise incorrect or complete rubbish. Yet many people believed this rubbish and felt fine, everything was going well and everything made sense to them. They had many answers to many questions, and they basically felt in control and well understanding the rules of nature. 

This brings me to my major point: we don’t really care so much about the quality of the answer at least not as species, we much more care about that we will have some answers to our questions and feel confident that the answer came up from a well educated and well established source of knowledge. We don’t really want to know if it’s true or not, we “know” it’s true and we move on with our lives, using those answers as guidance, and in many cases this leads to good survival rates in cultural scale. 

Not knowing
=====

I would say the biggest moral from it all is that we should emphasize much more our limits of understanding. How our knowledge answers the questions it can answer and want to answer and not necessarily the questions that matter. We might even don’t know the questions that matter, and if we ask them we look stupid - and more than that, maybe there is no meaning to the term “real questions”, maybe all the questions are capturing some part or some angle of the whole. So basically we can say that although we feel we have many answers to many questions, in reality we have very little and partial answers to some questions. And the majority of our knowledge is culturally biased to explore the questions that we have been taught to ask. So we use our brain in order to improve our survival chances in reality, but similar to ants we don’t know the heck of what is going on around us really - and all our knowledge is limited to the limitations that our brain inherently has. More than that - the feeling of knowing the answers is illusory, it makes us feel in control and confident that “everything is fine” and like for ants this is true in the majority of cases, and in the minority of cases which they wrong - they have very little to do about. 

To explore it a bit further - lets take for example a simple question: where am I? Many people in the morning ask this question and have a very fast anwer that makes them calm. If you would suddenly wake up in some place you don’t know anything about - you would be worried. Yet see what is the answer we usually get? I’m in my apartment, in my city, in my country. But we don’t truly know where we are in “reality”. We can continue I’m in a solar system in a milky way galaxy etc. But all those answers are for starters usually not part of the answer, and second of all we still don’t know where our universe is. We just make sense of our surrounding, to feel comfortable and safe, and this is the major concern we truly care about. Because we’re biological species evolved to survive - our major knowledge and concern is about our chances of survival, we don’t care that much about other features of our existence. We can ask similar question like “when am I?”  or “who am I?” - and we will see we're basically getting the same answers, that helps us to feel safe and protected, to feel we know and in control and that nothing bad should happen to us soon. 

Universal knowledge
======

There is none. I would like to say I know the answer, but there is none. When I’m asking where in the galaxy am I? I still might get some correct answer. But when I ask where the universe is? This question might even have no meaning at all. Our brain is an organ which helps us to survive and to realize things in the universe, many things - but it usually breaks up when we get to the “edge”. Many religions will give you an answer “from beyond the edge” but with some basic logical analysis anyone can see they give us rubbish childish answers - because the regular mind is broken there and any “special” mind is just nonsensical bunch of crap that has no solid ground underneath nor any sense to it all - or even any good reason to trust the person who claims to have the answer due to having this special mind. We come back into myths and legends, to allegories or anything that can’t be proven or even make sense at all. This “mystical” language turns out to be meaningless and pointless, and belong to some power groups that just want to control the masses, and has no sense or real reason to accept. So basically we come to the edge or our reasoning - we can see the edge but there is no point to cross it. We probably should accept we are like ants trying to make sense of our environment and we probably can do it better than the ants - but not much better. And like ants it does not matter as much as we think - the natural selection and other “hardcore” reality mechanisms are the one who will decide our faith not the best of our “answers” to meaning of it all. 

Mindful path
===== 

Although we can realize the limits of our perception and understanding of reality we at least can meditate and develop some sense of wonder and feel like a child that enters a large library that he has no true knowledge about. He can still learn and think, he can still enjoy what he can grasp - yet it will not reduce his basic and inherent sense of wonder of it all. The knowledge will not fill his cap full anytime soon, and no matter how much we know we still can experience the wonder of our existence and stand still in the presence of the sense of wonder of the universe mysteries. We can develop and intense the sense of wonder so much that our perception of reality will change drastically and will feel very differently than people who have the answers and are calm about them (not that they're doing it wrong - everyone doing something which is wrong and right to some extent). This will also be some sort of answer to our quest, but the sense of having control and grasp of our reality will be paired with deep and consistent sense of wonder and sense of limit of our understanding. 

I will end with quote of Einstein. There are only two ways to live your life: as though nothing is a miracle, or as though everything is a miracle.
