Contemplation 
=====

Many people know what meditation is - at least in a classical sense. You sit, you try to observe and not think, maybe think a little bit while observing the thinking and not "falling" into it (becoming the thinking). This is very clear exercise - maybe not simple to implement and it takes years to be true observer, but the direction on how to do and what to do is clear. Just sit and observe - whatewer this means to you. When you noticed you fall into illusion by the observation, fall back into being observer. 

Exercise for 1 minute. Try to observe and not fall into the observation i.e. don't fully believing this is the reality. When you notice you fell into the observation, get out of there, to your center. 

But not so many people know that contemplation is also something very educational, which can be learned, and be not less "meditative" and mind transforming. The execrices for contemplation are much dependant on your knowledge of any specific subject, but proper contemplation can (and should) be practiced not less than meditation. Meditation in many ways is an exercise which only shows how good you do this exercise and only it. Like some specific dimention which doesn't requere any knowledge only practice and this is why people attracted to it. Yet contemplation in my opinion is where the western energy goes, and I mean what people actually doing is thinking, today many people have very complex ideas on many subjects, so this means people are prefereing to contemplate over meditate to feel the energy flowing through them. Contemplation as well can be practiced and learned to benefit many important mind properties, which basically makes every moment of existance more "fulfilling". More than that contemplation can bring you to very new places where meditation would never brought you, this is basically an exercise which should be done because you are a human being - that wants to make sense of reality around him. This is much more basic than meditation which is only an exercise you do to "practice" something - maybe important but not existential necessary. Contemplating is essential and existantial, otherwise you as a person will do very shallow and random stuff with your life. Contemplation is something everyone need, and not many know how to do. 

What is contemplation?
========

The basic premise of contemplation is that the information passing through us is much larger than what we grasp at first glance. This means that with some "not automatic" move on, to the next thing, but on the contrary staying and analyzing and thinking about the subject at hand we can get some new insights. We can notice something - like a thought, the word itself, or the meaning or anything else. There is infinite amount of information anywhere, that we can notice and "feel" deeper. This is what contemplation is basically about - noticing the deep ocean of information around us, and starting to feel (maybe with additional meditation on some subjects) that this is much more "reality" than what we use to see in the first glance, the "survival mode" view. 

The best way to think about it, as a lot of very complex and deep energies are passing through us. I'm calling it an energy because of lack of better word - one can call it entities. It's not physical energy and has nothing to do with physics in classical sense. For example we can take a pen. We many times will not think that this is something special, because we're not letting the energy of the pen pass through us more deeply - and this is ok, we don't need this to survive. But a pen has a long history, each pen built out of parts, those parts were designed and refined and carefully chosen for the purposes of this particular pen. This particular pen has also a history it came from some factory, it was assembled by some people who are doing only that for the entire days or weeks. 

Contemplation is not only about feeling single energy but also feeling the connection between them, the alegory that it can shed light into our lives, and have a deeper understanding of life itself. It's not only about "energy" that passes through us but also and mainly this is about aknowledging the meaning of it all to us. Many times we carry knowledge but we never stop to think about its implication on "reality". We know everything built of zilions of atoms, but we rarely stop to think how complex the reality around us is - and how limited our perception of it. Meditating is not helping it - we need to contemplate first, find those hidden truth about reality and then we can meditate (practice this thought proccess many times) and feel them more naturally. 

Good contemplation should give some insights that we can look upon them and see them - i.e. we can with time develop a feeling for the insight from the inside. If we only contemplate about something "abstract" this also could be a contemplation but not a complete one. One should strive to find a way to make some sort of connection between the subject and himself, his view of reality. At least this is the most important contemplations. 

Examples:
========= 

## Example 1

I was thinking about the energy of CPU. This computational unit is built out of millions upon millions of resistors (small logical components). But they build a city of logical mastery - which can be proven to allow universal computations, and hence here we are, in modern time we all use the different CPUs. Then I realized that as a CPU designer, I don't have a clue how is it to make billion operations a second, I'm not sure I make billion operation in my entire life. So on one hand I know very well one operation, I know the basic logic and the computational characteristics, but I don't imagine how is it to trully be the CPU when its running. So we as a creators we understand the principals by which the CPU is working, but we don't know anything about how is it to live there in day to day life. We're only interested in designing the next level. This is very similiar to what is happening in our society. We as people live in this structure which is well thought for thousand of years by smart people, but those people never trully understood how is it to live as a regular person under their "social design". The besy example is communism - people generally weren't happy under it's control, but the ideas are very bright and talk about reprogram humanity toward best version of itself.  

Like we the designers Gods of the CPUs, that we don't see the long term implication of our designs we only focus on logical computation of the CPU single cicle, we can think of our Gods the same way. When I speak about Gods, I'm talking about people and events that change humanity completelly. The Gods are not some "outside" creatures, but energies that live among us, and when time comes they move whole nations, the whole humanity is changed because of their contributions. We know the names, we know the history and the memes sorounding those "Gods", many times they are "evil" but still everyone knows them as an example of evil. 

## Example 2

I was trying to sit and meditate. But then I felt a song in my mind - instead of trying to fight and switch it off I started to play with it. For starters I felt I don't know the words of the song, so I looked up the lyrics and looked up the video clip (I saw an energy passes through me and I ignore it instead of giving it a place). Then some point in the clip catch my attention - the words I believe. So I made a special meditation, about this word. What this word is saying to me? What is a belief to me? What are my associations and feeling about it? How they are related to the "I believe" in the clip. I have had different times in my life when I believed different things which now I don't. I started to sense how the energy of belief is passing through me, and when I turn it down and become cynical laughing at my previous naivety, I actually become miserable. So there is probably a balance between being too naive and being too cynical. You need to be realistic without buying some "crap" and "bulshit" on the other hand if you don't believe anything, if your life is left to the dark forces of "maindain survival" routine, you have no "real" life - at least it's how I feel. 

Exercises: 
=======

1. Try to see and sense evrything around you as something very complex. Start from your mind - the words running through your mind have history. The you as a human have a very long evolutionary history, see your body - it's not a coincidence it's like this, few bilion years pass in order to make it this way. Then take an object around you - think about his history, how the object came to be who invented it for what purpose, how it past the test of generations, how he came to your environment etc. 

2. Look at yourself at different scales - for once each of your second is very complex proccess that takes years to learn and explore, on the other hand millions upon million of years pass, you're part of very big and complex society, you are part of biological species. Try to feel the absurdity of scales around you, and feel them. 

3. When you imagine something, remember something, or even some music which is simply stuck in your head (sort of forced reminding), try not to pass by it and try to see how well do you know this object in your mind? With what resolution your mind "looks" at things and with what resolution your eyes? The current moment has passed, what left of it is a mememory, the memory starts to fade away - try to see everything as pieces of "faded away" current moment, as echos of it in your mind. Sometimes the mind is actually the source - the "ideal" version of something - just pay attention to those things that appear in your mind and try to see how well they are known to you. 

4. Freestyle contemplation. Here what's important is that you will not let strong energies that passes through you as they are. Try to learn more about them, try to feel them more, try to understand them better. There is infinite amount of things which are going on around you, but there are several that you can pay special attention towards. Don't jump from topic to topic in your thoughts, also don't just repeat the thoughts, try to explore them, try to get deeper into the topics your though is wondering, try to control the boat towards things which are related to you. You can also stop from time to time to let something sunk in, to feel the insight, to actually meditate upon it and then move on. 
