Claim 1: Consciousness is the same as universal computation (turing complete) from the inside. In the moment you compute something you start not only to make  operations, but also this making has inner side or at least part of some proccess that has internal side. When you can make any computation possible, you become a creature who has a "fully developed" internal information unit. This means from example that at the moment we will create machines that actually comprehend their existance, killing them (stopping their simulation) would be as killing a person.  

Claim2:  aximatic belief that the information is inside the reality. The information is not something "external" to reality, but it's a reality. Each point of reality is eternal just because it exists in space of information, this space of all information is all existant (i.e. you don't need to be in certain physical point to obtain knowledge. You might need to be at certain mental point to observe the next level of information). So the reality and the conscious observer it's all systems of information. 

Claim 3: Watch at 0.5 [this](https://youtu.be/Psxktpxkc6o?t=181) movie. Stop at the link point. Morty and Dock are there, and therefor here as well. You can see their several levels of their existance from the inside. For once you are seeing them otherwise they would be pixel on the screen you see their story, their feelings, their internal life. By playing this on the screen without you - there would be no internal things happening, because you are the one who "feeling them from the inside". Now there is a level where they are actors which only playing a role which is written to the actors by the author. The author is using imagination and imagination is controled by imaginary entities which are "real". So now you're looking not at the actors but at the entities which are real and played to you their story through the author and actors. Look right at them, at those "true imaginary" entities, which are hide behind the pixels, the actors, the author. Look at those entities, they are universal - they could be anything and they are anything, but they chose be there (well basically the author chose for them - and this is also some sort of duality between writer and a god - by describing the god you limit him to be what you thinks he should be and do - a "true" god don't need stories to be written about him). Now you can think about yourself in the same way - you have an author (the universe), and a story is being compiled about your life throught a conscious entity which is you. But when you look at yourself which is a meme (your projection into it from inside), you don't recognize yourself fully. Well you recognize yourself more in other people, and you maximally recognize yourself inside you brain behind your eyes (it might be something that can move). 

Exercise: Write a short dialog between dock and morty, at that moment - the excitement of some unknown experiment. 
A group exercise: make to groups of people. Some people would be "dock" and some "morty". Each person in the group should not think what "he" would say or feel, not what he thinks dock/morty would say/feel, but what he thinks the majority of other people in the group would think about the same question. A voting system has each person a rating how good he is in making predictions about the majority of votings. So each person at every single vcoting has a specific score about how congruent he is with the others. Every time a person makes mistake his rating drops a little bit (the majority becomes the absolute). We give each one rating of 25, we can't get more than 50 and less than 10. Now this is somewhat monetary unfair system but yet still capable of giving minorities some weight of collaboration (to solve the issue for someone who has only ten and want to use it to "buy" stuff in futuristic society, we can make some stuff for free, but the free stuff will allow you to survive but not really enjoy life). Now Make a short dialog by this voting system.

Exercise: In the future there would be everything automated by robots and fixed for free. So how the monetary system will work? (my point is that when there is no money the only thing you have is your social rating - the majority becomes the absolute. And this is my way to solve the issue - make money that has limit above 50 and below 10). Now use the previous voting system to prefer your new voting system. Do it several iterations. Now make a dialog between Dock and Morty with the new voting system. 

Claim 4: Like you look at them to entertain you, they look at you (well basically they use computational power of your brain to be alive). So those entities the memes, they exist by being watch by us - well to be exact they alive for the same reason we are alive - we are part of the information universe, but this describes well the interaction between us in our reality - we need to think about something in otder to "communicate" with the idea of that something. You can also think about your life as a movie and you can play it to yourself by reminding yourself your past. You see the movie, you part of it - it might be not interesting movie, it might be interesting movie in some parts or fast play, it might be a movie no one else will want to see in the future, but you're basically a character in a movie of your life, and you can see this is a movie, a movie that can be played and watch at least by you. So you are a point in the space of 3d lives of a 3d characters. You belong to the same space that Dock and morty belong to - but you projected into "reality" in a different ways. This projection makes you think that you look at imaginaty movie, imaginary life, becuase you confuse reality and imagination (you prefer reality over imagination for some purposes - but when you have "free" time you prefer many times to live imaginary lives). 

Exercise: See your life as movie. Go from age you remember to 100 (or whatewer age you are expecting to not live). As you get older and older you will see how you start to fill the gaps - this will give you a reference of the speed in years you are moving through). Make it a habbit to remind yourself you're in a movig movie. 

