Claim 1: We recognize we're moving in time. We can meditate and find the area of our mind that says to us - time is passing. We can listen to this part of our mind. By listening to part that says - time is passing, we switch to the place where time passes slower because we get out one step "outside" of time scales. If you did the noticing exercise, you know that the speed by which you can say you notice stuff is much slower than you actually noticing stuff. So when you noticing time passage you slow down your subjective perception of time.

Exercise: For 5 minutes meditate that the time is passing. Listen to the "music of time" - notice mainly the fact the time is passing. Make it for 30 seconds several times until you sure your focus is not fading towards other things. Then do this for a minute until you trust yourself your focus isn't changing, then two minutes etc. The focus should be movement in time. When you notice "something else" you should notice how time passes inside the thing. 

Exercise 2: Clear your mind of anything which is not the passage of time. Fill that you're time - you're literally time. Think of reality as an exercise that helps you to feel the "internal life" of all beings which is time. This is just an exercise, there is no claim time is the most important thing in the universe - but it can be felt this way (as the soul of being). Without time there is no movement, there is no change there is no proccess. Everything is "enveloped" by time, and you can identify yourself with this "internal entity", which we call time. 

Claim 2: Now move your hands in periodic movement. Notice how calm you are - how you don't see any problem between the movement and what you see and expect. As a child you learned that. This correlation between the movement and what you see and sense, is what makes the universe "calm" for you. When you don't feel this way, when you feel that what you do is not answered correctly by the universe then you get a feeling that you are strange to the universe. We all try to familiarize ourselves with the universe, and be loyal and open to it and its teachings so that we feel comfortable in it. I'm not saying that feeling comletelly like in a movie without any suffering is the goal, I'm saying that we have some degree of acceptance with the universe we're part of, sometimes people disagree completelly with the universe and how he behaves, this is also ok. People have the right to be whatever they choose to be, I'm saying that if you're calm is basically the other side of the coin of feeling comfortable in the universe - percieving it as positive, and if you're annoyed all the time you percieve the universe as something unpleasant something negative. And the fact you got no strong negative feelings from moving your hands, is showing that this is something which is in agreement between you and your "god" - the universe around you, which is forced upon you. 

Exercise: Start to notice things which you feel secure about and things which you don't feel secure about. Understand that this is basically the same as a quality of prediction of what is probable to happen. Not knowing the future or having limited control over it is the same as suffering. Of course having negative expirience and expectation of the universe is also possible, and it's also expected negative i.e. suffering. The basic thing is to notice your mind is making predictions of what is going to happen and takes action accordingly. It also has some evaluation of the situation in some many dimentional space, and it takes actions acourding to some optimization function, one important factor of which is the expected negative or positive consequences of the action.

Claim 3: Our feeling is only occuring in the "now" - what we percieve is the now and only now. This is an absolute truth - even when you afraid of the future or regret the past we are always doing it in the now. The now is probably not a point in time but some sort of interval, which is not well defined - and has some grey area. Nevertheless the only active "happening" is always inside this small interval. Our mind is always trying to infere from past expirience and logical options what will occur in the future. This is an obvious survival mechanism - this is very important, if you will only think about the now and not think about the future at all you will starve to death very probably. So the basic meditation of being in the present is not about ignoring the flow of time and not thinking about the future at all - only noticing that everything is happening in the now, including thinking about the future. This second layer of "feeling of the now" is many times absolete from perception, just like many times we watch a movie and forget we're watching a movie (which is also not a bad feature necessary). Yet still we can make an exercise to increae our awareness of the present moment, to be in the now - to feel how the current moment, the perception and the thinking and the feeling of the current moment is all there is, all there is "always". There is no "other" thing other than percieving reality in the now. 

Exercise: Sit and let your thought wonder. Sometimes it would be a memory, imagination, some emotion of imaginary possibility. When you notice it happening, just say to yourself I'm "remembering it in the now" or "I'm imagining it in the now" etc. Always come back to the now. Notice your ability to forget about the now - and only think about the future. 

Exercise 2: Make an action with purpose. For example go to store to buy stuff. When you're going try not to be in a hurry, and pay attention to the current moment, try to feel what is happening now - and not only think about what will happen when you arrive. More advanced exercise is when you are in a hurry, try to be in a hurry now - because you're always in the now, even when you in a hurry and want to be in other place, feel that you still in the now all the time. 
