### Depth of perception of reality

Think that each moment contains million upon millions of informational bits which surrounds us. Very tiny amount of them reach us and leave some trace on our mind. Now imagine that every moment of your existance would be filled with some deeper sense of the existance of this information, you will fill you're in a huge library and you're walking from book shelf to book shelf trying to read one or two pages of random books of this practically infinite library. How would your reality look like? Would you be able to be bored? 

Developing spirtualy is about developing this basic sense of wonder and the infinite knowledge which surrounds us all the time, and developing this sense of "inner depth" in reality which we usually as people don't notice due to many thoughts and worries. 

### Seeing the sea

Think of a person who doesn't see the sea he only sees the sand moved by the waves but not the water. He will feel some wonder as to why the sand is moving, but with time he will get used to it - and will stop wondering. Think how this person would feel when he sees the waves? He would say wow! Now I understand why the sand is moving! But while he would see the waves he wouldn't see the sea itself. He will not know how the waves are formed, because he will want to feel the wonder of the send moved by the waves. Then he will say to himself - I see the waves this explains the movement of the sand, but why are waves moving? Then he will find the sea which moves and he will understand the waves. So now in this movement of the send one can see the sand, one can see the waves which move the sand, and one can see the sea moving the waves moving the sand. This is the same movements of the sand, but one can feel more in this movement than some other. By understanding deeper a phenomenon one can sense some deeper meaning of it, and while the deeper feeling is developed a feeling of some "inner structure" of the cosmos can develop as well. Because everything is influencing everything, and everything is interconnected, so while our mind is trying to generate separation to concepts and meanings, the true state of things is very basically connected to the nature of reality (physically speaking everything is built of atoms and goverened by laws of physics - so everything in its core is the same, only "higher" level perspective differentiate us). 

So one can little by little develop this sense of depth to reality which is present around us and we don't see it with our eyes but it's there and it goes very deeply. 

### Sense of wonder and the unknown

Another effect of spiritual growth is seeing the complexity of inner structures of other people, other beings and other entities. Many times we assume evreyone around us are like us. When we develop the sense of inner complexity of our own consciousness, we can learn how this is also differs to other people. We can notice how "not like us" the other people are, and how hard is it to imagine how is it feel to be them. 

When we see many sides of our internal consciousness, and the possibility it has - we can start to develop the sense of wonder, the incompleteness of our knowledge, the reality becomes a huge garden looked upon from a small keyhole in a small door. Everything becomes much deeper and wonderful, and our knowledge partial and incomplete. While this happens one can many times move from knowledge to his emotions, as the emotions is another way to interact with reality. But although our knowledge is limited our emotions many times even more so. Yet many times spiritual people become overly sentimental, acting based on their emotions instead of realization. 

The point here is that spiritual development is not about emotional development, as emotions are spontanious and unpredictable. Spirtuality is about development of some sense of presence and deeper feeling to the existance, which is very rational. But the feel itself is more than just having an opinion to the topic, the feeling itself is strong and present like an emotion. But unlike spontanious uncontrolable emotion, the spirtual feeling is based upon deeper and rational view of reality which has been internalized up to emotional level. 

